Protein-protein interactions are crucial in most cell biological activities and functions. To study protein-protein interactions and their three-dimensional information, we can use protein complexes. Protein complex stability refers to the propensity of a protein complex, which consists of two or more proteins bound together, to remain intact and functional under various conditions. This stability is fundamental for the proper execution of biological functions since protein complexes are involved in nearly all cellular processes. Amino acid mutations can change the protein complex stability. However, experimental studies on protein complexes are time consuming and have many technical limitations. Therefore, we developed machine learning models to predict the variation of protein complex stability (ΔΔG) upon amino acid mutations. The SKEMPI dataset contains 4952 single point mutations with the ΔΔG. The mutation can have a stabilizing or destabilizing effect on the protein complex and the location of the mutation has a role in determining its effect. The relative solvent accessibility is the proportion of the residue exposed to the solvent and has a correlation with the ΔΔG. We used MODELLER to construct a model of the mutated protein structure and we extracted different features to train our models. The features are: the amino acid mutation, the local environment of the mutated amino acid and the relative solvent accessibility of the amino acid. We trained different machine learning models using a 10-fold cross-validation: Linear Regression, Gradient Boosting Regression, Support Vector Regression and Random Forests. The Random Forests model has slightly better results than the other models.
